So far we have used a very traditional coordinate
system to position our elements with the x
and the y axis. But there are other kinds of
coordinate systems and one of my favorites
is the so-called polar coordinate system.
In this coordinate system we don't define
our points by x and y, but instead by the radius
of a circle and the angle. So we define points
on a circle line. And we have a formula that
helps us convert angle plus radius into x and y
coordinates. So that we can actually position them
in our more traditional x/y coordinate system.
The formula is quite straightforward. I've added
it to the website you can see it below the video.
To get the x axis, we simply multiply
the radius times the cosine of Math.PI,
again this is radians not angles so we need
this little formula that we used in one of the
previous videos. So 2 times PI is 360 degrees
so to make it more usable, we simply divide PI
by 180 and multiply it times the angle, times
the degrees we actually want on our circle.
And for the y axis we simply do the same what
we used for the x axis, but sine instead of the
cosine. To give you a very simple example what we
could use this for, we simply will create a loop
and we will draw a couple of points on our circle
line. We use the angle to increase the angle
every time the loop runs and the whole
thing should run as long as our angle is
smaller 360. so it should run for one full
circle and we add 15 degrees after every loop.
and now we simply need to
define our angle, our radius
and then we only need to add our vertices
and then we have our points on a circle line
positioned. and because the zero, the center
of our circle, is at zero, so it's in the upper
left corner of our sketch, we simply need to add
the half of the width of our canvas and the half
of the height, to position it in the center. And
now you can see all the little segments. We can
increase the angles that are added after each
loop, so you can now even see more clearly how
there are multiple points along the circle line
positioned. As we defined through the angle here.
But of course we can do a lot more things with
this. For example we could also say okay we don't
give it a fixed radius but for example we use
a random radius so every time a point is drawn
we generate a new radius for example 125 to 150
so now we have like a little jiggling circle
we could of course also add a noLoop() here
and now you can see how there is a certain
randomness in the radius or we could also
for example increase the radius at each point and
thereby create like something like a little shell
so we start with one and then we simply increase
the radius by one and let's make it 15 again
and remove the close
whoops oh
so now we get a very little spiral and to
make it a bit more of a spiral we could simply
run it two times so now we get
this nice little spiral here
and of course we could also make it a
bit bigger and so the polar coordinate
system is quite easy to use but gives you very
interesting use cases to create round objects to
align things on the center around
the central point so there's a lot of
different applications how you can use this
in your designs and your generative objects